http: hyper text transfer protocol (set of rules)
https , web sorted (ws)
set of rule which interact with server
we dont need to install http it come with node js

 

we can create server using http but we use express 
because in http we have to write very large amount of node
Express less line of code


->Express
Express is a framework for node js (not of node js)
framework or module or package
Express work is to create web server
behind the scene http work.
it is modified version of http
express node ke sath use kiya jata h na ki node ke jagah par
react is a frame work of js


npm install express


-> Ports: decide and give a port our web app will rum
2000-9000 port range (as in this range most of the port are empty)
8080 -> we prefer for backend
browser will send request to 8080 port 
so request will be listen on 8080 port by our server
from this range we give port no. to our server
Server should be always ON


-> app.use
it is a middleware function:
middleware func :-runs on every incoming request of the browser 


--> Server stores things in 2 formats: (req,res both are stored in the form of object)
1. request: browser send request to server 
2. response: server response to the browser or user or client





// nodemon is the application or tool that help develop nodejs type application by the auto starting the server whenever their is any changes
npm install nodemon
script:  "start": "nodemon ./index.js" // do this in package.json

npm start or  node index.js or nodemon index.js<-- to start the server



->Routing:
for each incoming request we will get a different response
-> types of request or methods (OR http methods)
1. Get : is to ask for data (server se lena)
2. Post : work to send data to server
3. Put : use to modify the resource by 100% replacement or full modification
4. Patch : use to modify , used for partial modification
5. Delete :used to delete specific resource
 
 "/" root path (by default path)
And by default method is 'get'




-> why i am studying methods:
jo mai request bhejta hu mere server ko, us request ko hamara server 2 cheejo se
samajhta h:
1. methods (Ex. get, post)
2. path (Ex. '/home')
